hey I wanted to make a video here for a
little while talking about my current
job search and my plans to possibly
relocate to Japan but possibly any more
on planet earth to be honest with you um
I just filled out a job application the
other day that asked me the
intentionally vague and frustrating
question of please describe an
experience that has changed who you are
in the world and then after that it
specifies 200 words so this asking you a
supposedly profoundly meaningful and
profoundly relevant to the job you're
applying for question and that's giving
you two hundred words to do it so this
is really the the Twitter generation of
you know define your barrier soul for
the world in 200 words this particular
job was indeed relevant to my past work
experience doing humanitarian work and
research in Southeast Asia so I
attempted in only 200 words to tell the
heartbreaking story of a woman in Laos
who during the Vietnam War I a war that
by the way is referred to as the
american war over in that part of the
world if you want to sound sophisticated
especially in speaking the local
language um during the Vietnam War she
had to flee up into the mountains and
across the border from Laos and Vietnam
to escape us bombardment pretty common
story that general outline of it at
least and while she was working her way
along one of these mud roads through the
mountains a helicopter an American
helicopter came down from the sky at the
slaughter them even though they were
course just civilians fleeing that also
was fairly common quite well-documented
to on the hole in the in the war anyway
so this helicopter came down and shot
them or shot at them I might say and
they scattered and tried to hide
themselves in the water of the river
just fled in all directions as civilians
will do in those circumstances and one
detail the story that definitely brings
true by the way those big guns that are
that are bolted onto helicopter gunships
it's nothing like a rifle it's not like
being shot by a pistol or or handheld
rifle this has come up a few different
times in my political science career or
so to speak if you get hit by around
from one of those guns because they're
designed to be able to at least stop a
truck but quite possibly to stop a tank
and also to go a long distance itself
tremendous power it'll tear your body in
half getting hit by just one shot and if
you get hit clean in the midsection it
can carry all of your internal organs of
your body that kind of thing is the the
amount of energy is so tremendous I am
just now thinking that a couple of
people might have clicked on this video
not at all expecting to hear a gory war
story and that's exactly what you're put
together anyway 200 words I tried to
tell this heartbreaking story that I
heard in in Laos moving through the
mountains try to escape the ravages of
war and there was one woman who was
carrying her own newborn baby still
breastfeeding when she was shot by this
helicopter gunship in these
circumstances and the bullet probably
hit her in the hips and took the bottom
half of her body clean off definitely
took both her legs off and while she's
lying there in shock she can still speak
for a few minutes or a few seconds or
what have you after this has happened
and she says to the survivors after the
helicopters gone away carry me along
with you a little ways so I can
breastfeed my infant one last time and
then set me down when I die
and they did exactly that the men picked
up the half of a woman not yet a corpse
and that half of a woman held on to her
baby and breast fed as they walked along
a little ways after some time they felt
the body turn lifeless and of course it
wasn't holding on to the baby quite the
same way anymore and they put the body
down took the body out of her arms and
then went along the west rest of the way
they did eventually escaped into the the
caves they were seeking there in the
mountains and the woman who told me that
story survived the war learning to read
and write at a chalkboard in a cave in
the high mountains northwestern Vietnam
so that is the story I attempted to tell
in 200 words when this job application
asked me to describe an experience that
had changed my life and my place in the
world and it's a moving story it's a
memorable story but the truth is it
didn't really change me hearing that
story and having that experience really
an example of something that did change
me if you look through this channel
there's a recent video the title is
something like cocaine and the
philosophy of science that actually
discussed is a book that really changed
me and the reason why I change me was a
course that I'd gone through some prior
learning some prior experience and then
reading that book was a turning point
where things change my attitude change
my little changes on this story even
though moving about the woman in the
mountains the helicopter and so on I
already knew all that stuff at least in
broad outlines already read survivors
accounts to the war I was aware of many
other examples
of things like that happening so there's
no reason why hearing this one further
story would actually change me as a
person so I could say more on that but
actually it's it's an interesting
question what are the experiences and
what are the stories that really change
you as opposed to things that are maybe
dramatic but that leave you unchanged
what changes you is understanding you
can do a lot of suffering without
getting any understanding and you can
sometimes gain a new understanding
without doing so much suffering but
we'll see if I get the job so look guys
my reason for sharing this video with
you is partly because for me I do not
have a real separation between my
internet presence in my real life this
video does not exist to talk about just
politics or just economics or just the
study of languages it also doesn't exist
to just talk about veganism or some
other issue that may have brought you
here it certainly doesn't exist just
talk about my past history as a scholar
of Buddhism although I do still talk
about for some time time this channel
talks about me in my life and what's
going on and what's going on with me
right now is that I'm applying for a
whole bunch of jobs within the last week
as I recall applied for two different
jobs in Japan one job in Myanmar and I'm
using the word job here to include all
sorts of opportunities whether they are
paid internships whether they are co-op
jobs arranged by my university or
whether they are just directly talking
to employer oh yeah that reminds me yeah
yeah there was one more job in Japan I
forgot about just in the last week that
I applied for I'm pursuing new work
through at least four different methods
as i categorize things in my own head
and one of those methods that may
surprise you surprised a lot of people
is that i have formally applied to join
the canadian military
and I am now going through the testing
and interview process that begins
admission to the Canadian Armed Forces
different people react to that using
different ways as I've mentioned in
recent videos many of my professors not
all but many really do talk to me as an
equal and a friend which is wonderful i
have professors who I you know go for
coffee with and really you know we talk
as as equals would you wonderful and
again it's not all professors there are
a couple professors who I think hate my
guts and it's okay um some of you
watching this channel right now may hate
my guts and that's also ok um but it's
interesting to see how powerless and
frustrated they feel because many of my
professors regard me as an unusually
talented student and unusually bright
student or brilliant student I mean now
some of them say very flattering thinks
about me which is nice I'd use words
like brilliant Sakura just saying um
they see me as somebody with potential
but the reality of the conversations I'm
having with them is that we're talking
about the details of exactly how my
potential is going to waste and very
likely how it is going to continue to go
two ways tell what is really going to be
snuffed out so some of these guys have
been talking to you for like whatever
year and a half now and it's like well
year and a half ago we were talking
about ma programs and PhD programs for
me we're talking about other possible
career paths for me and these professors
didn't have any positive answers didn't
have any positive opportunities to talk
about with me they were all kind of
hanging their heads and saying it's
hopeless nothing paused to tell you and
now I'm telling them well I'm joining
the army and they react in all sorts of
different ways to that some positively
one professor in particular really said
that he felt that joining the army would
be an honorable path for me to take and
he saw it very positively others regard
it very negatively and they feel sort of
crushed and set back and show
and don't see how this fate could have
happened to me again given they perceive
me as an unusually talented promising
bright student as someone who in theory
could do all kinds of positive jobs in
the world and the past I have done all
kinds of jobs that's in the story but
the reality is with Canada joining the
army is a very slow process it would be
at least 12 months between the present
and my beginning active service and that
is partly because of extensive
background checks and security checks so
is not a case that I will be in the near
future looking at an either/or decision
between getting a job and joining the
army I would say it's quite likely the
army the first process will be even 18
months I won't go into why so 18 months
is long enough that I could move to
Japan work for a full year and in theory
I could even move back to Canada after
that year and still not have actually
signed up for the army if they want me
and if I decide I want the work so I am
applying for many different jobs in many
different corners of the world as I
mentioned one of the jobs i guess two of
them have been really related to my
humanitarian background one in japan one
in myanmar i am applying for straight-up
work as an English teacher including in
Japan and one of my reasons for sharing
this stuff with you now if you're
watching this in the year 2030 kind of a
different situation but if you're
watching this right now in the year 2016
you guys are part of my life my viewers
can change my fate and at least one of
my viewers already who gotten touched me
we had a couple different conversations
he actually took a copy of my CV of my
resume and gave it to his boss it was
about a particular job that he thought I
was well suited for blah blah blah so
already a couple of different people
have known to the internet have tried to
help me and try to get involved with my
current job search
that's about it look man I don't talk
about it every video I don't want to
ruin anyone's day but yeah fundamentally
there is huge pressure on me because I
have a two-year-old daughter and still
it is possible i'll never see my
two-year-old daughter again i also have
a very expensive lawyer but if I ever do
want to see my two-year-old daughter the
cost of doing that geographically
legally and otherwise is enormous so
I've pressure on me to earn money not
just for her not just to support her but
also to support my spending time with
her and that's partly made even more
difficult because both short-term and
long-term I don't really know where
she's going to be living in the world
they're not really based in France no
point getting into it and also when they
first moved to France i was told that
was just temporary and that within a
number of weeks they were going to move
from france to either New York or
Seattle through all these different
things that push and pull on it but yeah
one way or another I already lost more
than 10 years of my life becoming a
scholar of Buddhism I don't have those
10 years back to do over again I can't
waste another 10 years developing
expertise in some area of scholarship
that can't possibly get me a job
although I don't need a career today I
need to have a career direction today
and yeah these are all factors that
despite my relatively deep knowledge of
atrocities committed in war by all sides
click through this channel boy if you
think the Communists didn't commit any
trustee sin Walker I have a lot of
videos on this channel discussing
in-depth mass murder by communists but
yeah there's also course atrocities
committed by the American side and so on
I'm aware of all that but I am looking
at making the decision of joining the
Canadian military and joining the
military at a time of war